CSE422 Lab Project Report Template


Cover page
Table of contents
Page no. 

Introduction

A small introduction on what the project aims to do, what problem it’s aiming to solve, the motivation behind the project.   


Dataset description


Dataset Description
How many features?
Classification or regression problem? Why do you think so?
How many data points?
What kind of features are in your dataset? (Quantitative / Categorical)
Do you need to encode the categorical variables, why or why not?
Correlation of all the features (input and output features) (apply heatmap using the seaborn library)
What do you understand after the correlation test? 



Imbalanced Dataset
-For the output feature, do all unique classes have an equal number of instances or not?
-Represent using a bar chart of N classes (N=number of classes you have in your dataset).

Perform exploratory data analysis to extract some important relationships from your data.       [Reference:   EDA Lab CSE422]


Dataset pre-processing


Faults
Null / Missing values
Categorical values
Feature Scaling
Solutions
Delete rows/columns, Impute values [show cause]
Encoding(as required) [show cause]
Scaling as per requirement


Note: Firstly, discuss one problem, and then write about the solutions or pre-processing techniques you have applied to solve that problem. Afterward, proceed to the next problem.



Dataset splitting
Random/Stratified (as required)
Train set (70%)
Test set (30%)


Model training & testing (Supervised)
KNN  (for classification problem)
Decision Tree (for classification/regression problem)
Logistic Regression (for classification problem)
Linear Regression (for regression problem)
Naive Bayes (for classification problem)
Neural Network (for classification/regression problem)

**** Treat the problem as an unsupervised learning problem, apply kmeans and showcase the clusters****


Remember you have to apply a Neural Network and at least 2 other models 



Model selection/Comparison analysis
Bar chart showcasing prediction accuracy of all models (for classification)
Precision, recall comparison of each model. (for classification)
Confusion Matrix (for classification)
AUC score, ROC curve (for classification)
R2 score and Loss (for regression)

Compare the results of all models based on all of the above described metrics



Conclusion
What do you understand from the results
Make useful comments regarding the performance of your model 
Why do you think you are getting such results 
What are some of the challenges that you have faced

